Let's go to the front end again.
So we're in yellow here, I'm gonna actually
start making our Cart.
It might help to actually add a few items to your Cart
so that we can loop over them.
So maybe just create another Cart item
five of the denim,
that's to me, create the cart item
and I'll just create one more,
where we have one ultra boost that's associated to me.
Whew, that's nice and fast, I really liked that UI.
Oh men, look we forgot this, page one of underscore
let's fix that real quick.
Pagination, was it in there?
Yeah.
Was it pages?
Page count,
there we go okay, shows up.
Okay, so now we wanna make a new component
that's called Cart.
So go to your components here, make a new file
Capital C Cart.js
And we'll export default function, capital C Cart
and run return from that we want our Cart styles.
And can we import those?
No, let's go into our styles folder and take a look here.
Here we go.
And export default Cart styles.
So we go to import those import Cart styles
from styles Cart styles.
And then inside of that, just say, hi.
Then we'll go into our header.js
and we're gonna put the Cart in there.
So we'll go right below the search here
or just simply put our Cart component and then import that.
And there's one more thing that needs to happen
for the Cart to show up.
And that is we're gonna pass it
a brand that is either open or closed.
So we'll say open is equal to true.
And I believe that will just auto save to just open.
Yep.
Here we go.
So one kind of cool thing
I'm gonna show you how to open and close the Cart is
that the styles that we have right here.
I'm passing a prop to the style component called open
and what we're doing here is
we can interpolate a little function right here that says
if the props that open is true
then we will transform translate X zero
because the default is translate X 100%
which we'll just put it off screen
and then when it has a prop of open
it we'll slide it on in, which is pretty, pretty nifty.
So we'll keep it in the open state.
And I think in the next video
what we'll do is we'll create a button that we'll
be able to open and close it.
And we're actually gonna stick that in context.
Next thing we need is a list
of all the Cart items that the user has.
So we can say const me is equal to use User
because remember how the Cart is gonna be stored
on our user.
And then in there, let's just say me.email.
Okay, good.
Now we need to go into this use user function here
and update that query
because this will now have information about our Cart.
So we'll go here, get rid of that to do
or say Cart and give me the ID of each Cart item,
give me the quantity of the Cart item
and then for every product in the Cart item.
Remember because the Cart item has a relation
to an actual product.
So say product
for that we need the ID of the product,
the price of the product, the photo of the product
and that has an image
which is nested on public url transformed.
Then we need
this is where those rainbow brackets
I usually use are super handy.
We need the name of the product
and the description of the product.
Maybe we should put these above the photo
'cause lots and lots of curly brackets.
Okay.
That is good.
Now we need to go back to our Cart.js.
And we'll say if there is no me then return,
you can return No, here you could return a paragraph
cannot view Cart when they're not signed in.
And then once we do decide that we are logged in
then it will show up.
Okay, so I believe now if we log the me variable
we should see that we have a Cart value.
There we go.
And then inside of that Cart is the three items
that are in our Cart.
And then there is a link to a nested product
and then you get all the values that you actually want.
So we can start to loop over it and render out
the rest of it.
So let's go inside of our Cart styles here
and we'll just go top to bottom.
First, we need a header for our Cart and we are going to
I have another component called Supreme
and that is a styled component.
And we're just going to put a me.name Cart.
The Supreme style component needs to be imported.
So I'll just duplicate this one
at the top and replace with the Supreme.
Here we go.
Wes Bos's Cart.
Now below that we need an unordered list
'cause we're gonna loop over each of the items in the Cart.
And we'll say me.Cart.map, we'll say Cart item.
So for each Cart item
we want to return a another component
which is going to be a Cart item component
because we don't necessarily wanna do all the nitty gritty
of each Cart item right inside of here.
We're gonna put it in its own component.
So let's make a new component called Cart item,
and that we'll need a key, 'cause anytime you're mapping
over anything in react
you always have to give it a unique key to that component
all should be capital C.
So lets just say Cartitem.id.
And then we also need to pass the Cart item directly
to the component.
And that is simply just Cart item, right,
'cause that's just right here.
Now we'll go into our components folder
and make that new Cart item component.
Actually, we could also.
Let's just do it in here.
Sometimes I like to do components in the same file
and then if it's needed in multiple places
I will simply just move it out into its own file.
But in this case, let's do it up here.
So over here, make a function called Cart item
that takes in a Cart item variable.
And then from that we return
let's just return a list item right now that has
the Cart item.id inside of it.
And there we go.
So we have the very basics we gonna right here.
We've got an unordered list.
We're looping over it.
And we for each card item
we are rendering out the ID of the item that's in that Cart.
We obviously need to go a little bit further
and go up to this Cart item here and we need some styles.
Let's write those ourselves.
Const Cart, item styles is equal to style.li.
Then we need to auto import styled good.
I'll say padding one rem zero border dash bottom on px,
solid var dash dash light gray, display.
Actually look, let's get this role in so we can
real-time see what we're working with.
So replace these allies with our Cart item styles.
There we go, we can go in here and display grid.
Grid template columns was auto one and for auto.
The reasoning behind this will make sense in just a second.
The image that we have margin dash right is 10px
or let's do one rem.
So we stay consistent.
And then our h three
and our paragraph have a margin of zero.
Okay, now we'll go back into our Cart item ally in here.
And first we need an image where the source is Cart item.
product.image.public url transformed.
And then the alt should be the
maybe let's make a quick little variable of product
'cause Cart item.product has a long thing to type.
So just say product.
I'll go up here I'll say const product is equal
to Cart item.product.
So product.name.
Can now access property public you'll transform
product.image is undefined and is it how come?
Let's console that log, the product.
See what we're working with here.
Oh, I think I know why it's because
if we haven't fetched the user, yet there is no product.
So say if there's no product we return
no.
No that wasn't, that's not the issue.
Console.log product.
Keep that in there because we'll need to do something
about the fact that products can be deleted
while they're in people's Cart.
Oh, you might be saying like, why isn't it console logging?
Because the initial renders on the server.
So we've gotta take a look here.
What that product is.
So let's look at our server side here and here we go.
This is our product.
Let's see if each one of them, that one has a photo,
that one has a photo and that one has a photo.
Why did I it's not image it's photo.
Oh, it's.photo, photo is the field
and images the linked value.
That's a little bit confusing.
There we go.
Now we've got the images being piped in here.
Let's pop a little width in there with the 100 boom.
Okay, I've got that.
Then underneath that, just give yourself a div
that doesn't need a class or anything.
It's just 'cause we need one element to encompass
a couple of things.
Well, the h three tag that has the product.name
and we need a paragraph tag that will tell how much it is.
So we'll go in here.
I'll say product price multiplied
by the Cart item dot quantity.
Okay, now we need to format that value.
We have our format money function already written.
So we can simply just wrap that format money.
Go here.
The auto import is not working right now.
All right, let's do it manually.
Import format money from.
Go up a level into lib into format money.
There we go.
(laughs)
$2,000 worth of cooler.
That's a lot.
Okay, next thing we need inside of this paragraph
tag is the first thing is format money.
Then we need just a dash.
And then I have an E and emphasis tag that will give us
some details about how many are in the Cart.
So Cart item.quantity.
And then I use and times that's the multiplication sign
which reads as multiplication side to screen reader.
So that's, it both looks good as well
as that's the proper thing to use instead of an X.
And we also need the format money
for the Cart product. price.
See if that's working.
Okay, so five times 10924 okay.
And then the last thing is we just need the word each
on the end.
Okay, so we will need a button that will allow us to remove
items from the Cart, but for now we don't have that yet.
So that's totally fine.
Last thing we wanna do is let's go back to our Cart right
here and we'll have to show the total value, but I'm just
curious right now I'm looping over the Cart right here.
And I'm wondering what happens if there's not an item
in the user's Cart, right?
What if there's nothing in the user's Cart,
let's go and let's sign in as somebody else.
So what are the other users we have here?
Test.
Test@example.com.
So sign in.
I believe it was west west west or dogs.
There we go.
Okay, and there's no errors.
No, okay.
Nevermind, I thought that we had to like check
for an empty Cart but it looks like the Cart will default
to an empty array from graphQL API, which is really,
really slick.
So down here what we'll have to do is we give ourselves
a footer and we need to have a paragraph
and we'll calculate the totals.
So format money, and we need a calc total price function
and you just pass it to me.Cart.
Now we'll have to write that function ourselves.
Let's go into our lib folder,
that's a good spot to put it.
Make a new file.
I'll call it calc total price.js.
Oh, say export default function, calc total price,
takes in the Cart.
And then from that, we'll take the Cart
and we'll reduce the Cart.
We will start that value at zero because we wanna
start the price how many cents are in the Cart.
And then basically from there, we take a tally
which is our accumulator of reduce and Cart item.
And we're going to loop over each item in the Cart
adding how many cents that item costs multiplied
by how many items are in the Cart for that item,
and then adding it to the sort of the running tally.
So here what we'll do, let's say if there is no Cart
item.product, simply just return tally.
And the reason we do that is
because products can be deleted, but they could
still be in your Cart.
That's kind of a weird thing to have to account for.
But it's possible that a product gets deleted while it's
in somebody's account or in someone's Cart.
So we'll do that.
Otherwise we're turn the tally plus Cart item.quantity
multiplied by the Cart item.product.price.
And let's jump back into our Cart here
and import that function that we just wrote.
That one auto imported and there we go.
Nice, you see how it's like really handy just
to stick all those little helper functions
into a lib folder or a utils folder.
That way you can also test them really nicely as well
by just passing them an array of values and expecting
that the price comes back to what your spec.
So that is the basics of our React Cart.
In the next video, we want to open
and close this thing using React Context.